OK so hopefully you are able to have an attempt at the six challenges in lost video.
Now let's take a look at the solutions to each challenge.
So the first question was asking us to other primary key to the ID fields in the pets and people tables.
So to add a primary key we want to type out a table followed by the table name.
So let's first do the table and then on the next line we want to type as the primary key followed by
the column.
So in this case is the ID column and I'm finished with the semi-colon.
We can run this stateman
and then we can describe the pets table and if we run that as well we can now see that the ID field
is a primary key.
And to add a primary key to all ID field in the people's table we simply just need to come in here and
instead of typing past the table name type people run the statement and add our primary key to the ID
field in the People table.
I'm not going to run the statement now because I've actually already got my ID field as a primary key
in the People table.
If we describe people you can see that the ID field is already a primary key.
But if you haven't set your ID field in the People table to be a primary key please run this escrow
same.
Now because we're going to need it in the next challenge.
OK so the second question was asking us to add a foreign key to the ID field in the table.
That's referencing the ID field in the People table.
So we can come in here and we can type out to a table and we want to be altering the table so outer
table pass and then on the next line we can add the constraint name.
So a foreign key constraint name and let's call it f k underscore path's owner and then on the next
line we need to type for and K and end in brackets the column which we want to set for N K.
So in this case is the ID from the stable and we want to type references.
So this IRNA ID column is going to be referencing the people table and it's going to be referencing
the ID column in The People table.
So we need to type people in brackets ID we need to run that statement now and then if we describe pets
again
we can see now the only ID field is indeed a foreign key.
So this is how we add foreign keys on the table by the table name.
I constrain followed by the constraint name foreign key the foreign key column references table name
column name and then the third challenge was to add a column named email to the people table so we can
come in here and we can type out table people and then on the next line to add a column we simply need
to type add column followed by the column name.
So email followed by the data type of this new column.
So for an email column is going to be a vulture.
And then let's set that to length 20.
So maximum length of 20.
So let's run that statement.
And let's describe people who again so you can see that it's made to change and you can see now we have
an email column with fotch or 20.
Now it doesn't matter if you had vulture 30 or 10 as long as you set the email data type to avouch or
that's all that matters.
If you set it to chaw.
And that's not really correct because an email can obviously be any length.
So we really need the email data type to be of our char and then the fourth challenge was to add a unique
constraint to the email column in the people's table in the people table.
So to add a unique constraint we need to type alter table we're again followed by the table name so
people.
And then on the next line we need to type add constraints followed by the constraint name.
So for unique constraints we like to type you underscore followed by a name.
So let's call it you underscore email and then we need to type unique and then in brackets we need to
type the column name.
So it's the email column and then we can run this statement and then if we describe it to describe people
again
you can see the email column is now unique.
So the challenge was to rename the name column in the table to first name.
So to do that we need to come in here and type o to table follow up by the table names so pass and then
we need to change and then back.
So not single quotes impact ticks we need to type the original name of the column.
So in this case it was name and then a space and then in takes the new name of the column.
So the new name is going to be first name and then we need to type the data type.
So for a name we can make it a vulture.
And then let's just say Volle Cha with a maximum length of 20.
So let's run this query
and then let's descry pass and you can see the name column is now first name followed by the data type
which was Varco 20.
And then the final challenge in this section on altering tables was to change the post code data type
to char 7 in the addresses table.
So to change a column's data type we need to type out a table followed by the table name.
So in this case it's addresses first time using the addresses table in this China-U.S. and then we need
to type modify and we need to type the column.
So in this case we want to be changing the postcode column and then the new data type.
So char 7 finished it with a semi-colon run this statement and then if we describe the addresses table
so run describe it dresses we can see the post code column now has a data type of char 7.
Originally it was 47.
So that's it for this challenge section on altering tables.
If you were able to get each challenge correct the first time then fantastic.
That's really good if you didn't then don't worry just go through this solution video.
Again if you need to make sure you understand and are able to answer each question now and if you have
any questions on this China-U.S. please ask in the Q and A section and I'll be out to respond to you
there.
So now let's move on to the next section.